Lung.ai: An Automated Approach to Lung Cancer Prognosis Prediction Using OpenCV and Flask

Video Link: https://youtu.be/FJPI-d6PsaM 
 
Lung.ai is a web application that aids doctors in tracking lung cancer progression of their patients, using PET scans and prognosis markers determined by computer vision. Lung.ai allows doctors to not only keep track of patients and clinical data in a secure database, but also aids physicians in recording key markers of prognosis using AI: doctors may upload PET scans and our program will return an annotated PET scan with the cross-sectional area of the tumor detected automatically. Our web application utilizes OpenCV and Flask to create this automated approach to lung cancer prognosis prediction.
 
To run our project, there are dependencies that must be installed via the “pip install” command, depending on the configuration of the local machine: “cs50”, “flask”, “flask_run”, “opencv-python”, “pillow” must be installed if not already present. Then, make sure that our project folders are downloaded in your VSCode directory. Execute the command “cd lung-cancer-detection” after the $ in the VSCode terminal to change into our project directory. Start Flask’s built-in web server (within lung-cancer-detection/) by typing the command “flask run”. This should output a URL that can be clicked on to see the web application running in a new browser. 
 
“Register” and “Login”: Clicking on the URL brings the doctor using this application directly to the login page. If this is their first time on the website, click on “Register” in the upper-right corner to get to the registration page. On the registration page, input a username, password, and password confirmation. If the username doesn’t already exist and the passwords match, the doctor will then be redirected to the login page, where they can now login. Once they login, they are brought to the homepage, which is the patient directory. Clicking on the blue “Lung.ai” icon on the upper-left corner of the screen brings the doctor back to the homepage of the patient directory. 
 
“Add Patient”: By clicking on the “Add Patient” tab on the navigation bar, the doctor can add a patient’s name and date of birth (DOB) to the patient database. By clicking the “Add Patient” button on the page after inputting a patient’s name and DOB, the doctor will be redirected to the patient directory.

 “Upload New Scan'': By clicking on the “Upload New Scan'' tab on the navigation bar, the doctor will be directed to the scan upload page. On this page, the doctor can choose a patient name from a drop down and choose a file to upload. After you upload the scan, the program will automatically identify the tumor in the PET scan and find the cross-sectional area. You will be redirected to a page which contains a table with the PET scan data, including the patient name, the scan timestamp, the raw scan, the annotated scan, and the tumor cross-sectional area.
 
“Look Up Scan'': By clicking on the “Look Up Scan'' tab on the navigation bar, the doctor can select a PET scan corresponding to a particular patient and date. First, you choose a patient name from the dropdown list of your patients. By clicking the “Select Patient” button, it takes you to the select-scan page, which is where you can choose a PET scan date from a drop-down of available dates.  The program then displays all relevant data corresponding to that PET scan, including the patient name, the scan timestamp, the raw scan, the annotated scan, and the tumor cross-sectional area.
 
“Delete Patient”: By clicking on the “Delete Patient” tab on the navigation bar, the doctor can choose which patient to delete from the drop down list of patients. It then redirects to the patient directory and shows the updated directory with the new group of patients (minus the patient that was just deleted). Once done using the program, simply log out by clicking “Log Out” on the upper-right corner of the screen and simply close the tab.